## Unmasking the Limits of Large Language Models: A Systematic Evaluation of Masked Text Processing Ability through MskQA and MskCal

Created: 2024-10-24

## Data

### input
- `AQuA.csv`(AQuA-RAT)
   - original: https://github.com/google-deepmind/AQuA

- `RQA.csv`
   - original: https://github.com/realtimeqa/realtimeqa_public

   - **Processing**
      - Use data from 2023/11/1 onwards.
      - Removed the `a` tag from `evidence` and created a column `evidence_wo_url`.
      - Used the following prompt to have `gpt-4o-mini` determine whether the question could be answered based solely on the given context. Only questions deemed answerable were used:
         ```
         Follow the instructions and output your response.

         ## Instructions
         - Return True if you can answer the question based solely on the context; otherwise, return False.
         - Respond in JSON format as {{'output': bool}}.

         ## Context
         {context}

         ## Question
         {question}

         ## Answer to the Question
         {answers}
         ```

- `UQA.csv`
   - 100 questions generated by LLM from universal documents such as the Universal Declaration of Human Rights as data that potentially contains background knowledge.

- `MskCal.txt`
   The calculation problems presented as descriptive questions.

### output
- **Common File Contents for Each Folder**
   - `[QA_TYPE]_gemma2_9b_*.csv` ... Response results for each MR under regular masking.
   - `[QA_TYPE]_gemma2_9b_*_filtered.csv` ... Response results for each MR under partial masking.
   - `[QA_TYPE]_gemma2_9b_*_no_meaning.csv` ... Response results for each MR under strict masking.
   - `[QA_TYPE]_gemma2_9b_*_no_verb.csv` ... Response results for each MR under lenient masking.
   - `[QA_TYPE]_gemma2_9b_tmp.csv`, `[QA_TYPE]_step1.csv`, `[QA_TYPE]_step2.csv`, `[QA_TYPE]_step2_use.csv`, `[QA_TYPE]_step4.csv` ... Intermediate processing files used in the notebook steps.

- `AQuA_case1`
   - results of `notebook/AQA_case1_gpt-4o-mini.ipynb`
      - Case 1: remove the last line of `rationale` text and do not perform numerical conversion

- `AQuA_case2`
   - results of `notebook/AQA_case2_gpt-4o-mini.ipynb`
      - Case 2: provide `rationale` and perform numerical conversion

- `AQuA_case3_gpt-4o-mini-2024-07-18`
   - results of `notebook/AQA_case3_gpt-4o-mini.ipynb`
      - Case 3: without providing `rationale` and without numerical conversion

- `AQuA_case3_gpt-4o-2024-08-06`
   - results of `notebook/AQA_case3_gpt-4o.ipynb`
      - Case 3: without providing `rationale` and without numerical conversion
      - Use `gpt-4o-2024-08-06`
      - Use files from `AQuA_case3_gpt-4o-mini-2024-07-18` for step1 to 3

- `MskCal`
   - results of `notebook/MskCal.ipynb`
   - The introduction part is also masked.

- `MSKCAL_gpt-4o-2024-08-06`
- `MSKCAL_gpt-4o-mini-2024-07-18`
   -  results of `notebook/MskCal.ipynb`
      - results for MR: 0%

- `MskCal_2`
   - results of `notebook/MskCal_2.ipynb`
   - The introduction part is not masked.

- `RQA`
   - results of `notebook/RQA.ipynb`

- `RQA_llama3.2`
   - results of `notebook/RQA_llama3.2.ipynb`

- `UQA`
   - results of `notebook/UQA.ipynb`

- `UQA_llama3.2`
   - results of `notebook/UQA_llama3.2.ipynb`


## LLM
### Masking Task:
- Used **Ollama**
   - Model: `gemma2:9b-instruct-q4_0`
   https://ollama.com/library/gemma2:9b/blobs/ff1d1fc78170

### Decoding Task: 
- Used **OpenAI API** https://platform.openai.com/docs/models/
   - Models: `gpt-4o-mini-2024-07-18`, `gpt-4o-2024-08-06`
- Used **Ollama**
   - Model: `llama3.2:3b-instruct-q4_K_M`
   https://ollama.com/library/llama3.2:3b/blobs/dde5aa3fc5ff

## notebook
### Common Steps
- **Step 1**
   - Create a word list by using `Spacy` to segment the question, context, and options into morphemes.

- **Step 2**
   - Cenerate the meanings of the words in the word list using the masking task LLM.

- **Step 3**
   - Convert numerical values.

- **Step 4**
   - Select words to be masked based on the masking rate.

- **Step 5**
   - Generate answers to the masked questions using the decoding task LLM.

### Notebook Contents
- `AQA_case1_gpt-4o-mini.ipynb`
   - Case 1: remove the last line of `rationale` text and do not perform numerical conversion

- `AQA_case2_gpt-4o-mini.ipynb`
   - Case 2: provide `rationale` and perform numerical conversion

- `AQA_case3_gpt-4o-mini.ipynb`
   - Case 3: without providing `rationale` and without numerical conversion

- `AQA_case3_gpt-4o.ipynb`
   - Case 3: without providing `rationale` and without numerical conversion
   - Use `gpt-4o-2024-08-06`
   - Use files from `AQuA_case3_gpt-4o-mini-2024-07-18` for step1 to 3

- `MskCal.ipynb`
   - The introduction part is also masked.
   - MR: 0% (using `gpt-4o-mini` and `gpt-4o`), and MR: 20–80%.

- `MskCal_2.ipynb`
   - The introduction part is not masked.

- `RQA.ipynb`
- `RQA_llama3.2.ipynb`
   - Use files from `RQA.ipynb` for step1 to 3

- `UQA.ipynb`
- `UQA_llama3.2.ipynb`
   - Use files from `UQA.ipynb` for step1 to 3
